--- PAGE 1 ---
Texas State 
Board of 
Plumbing 
Examiners
Candidate Handbook
August 2025
#494400
--- PAGE 2 ---
rev08/2025 Copyright © 2025 Pearson Education, Inc. or its affiliate(s). All rights reserved. pubs_orders@pearson.com
Quick Reference
Reservations
Before making an exam reservation
Candidates should thoroughly review this handbook, which contains 
examination review courses and important information regarding 
eligibility and the examination and licensing application process.
Making an Exam Reservation
Once they receive their "Authorization to Test" email, candidates may 
make their exam reservation by either visiting https://www.pearsonvue.
com/us/en/tsbpe.html or by calling Pearson VUE at (888) 304-3589.
Candidates must make an online or phone reservation for 
computer-based/written examinations at https://www.pearsonvue.com/
us/en/tsbpe.html or phone reservation at (888) 304-3589 at least 24 
hours before the desired examination date. Practical examination dates 
must be reserved at least ten days before the desired exam date.
Walk-in examinations are not available.
Schedules and Fees
Test center locations
A list of test centers appears on the back cover of this handbook. 
Candidates should contact Pearson VUE to confirm specific locations 
and schedules. Practical examinations are administered at the TSBPE's 
Austin or Waco testing centers only.
Exam fees
Exam fees must be paid at the time of reservation by credit card, debit 
card, or voucher. Payment will not be accepted at the test center. 
Examination fees are non-refundable and non-transferable.  Fees 
paid to Pearson VUE are in addition to any other fees for a practical 
exam as required by TSBPE. 
Exam Day
What to bring to the exam
Candidates should bring to the examination center a current 
government-issued photo ID. A complete list appears in What to Bring.
Exam procedures
Candidates should report to the test center at least 30 minutes before 
the examination begins to complete registration. Each candidate will 
leave the test center with an official score report in hand.
STATE LICENSING 
INFORMATION
Candidates may contact the  
Texas State Board of Plumbing 
Examiners with questions 
about obtaining or maintaining 
a license after the examination 
has been passed.
Texas State Board of 
Plumbing Examiners (TSBPE) 
7915 Cameron Road 
Austin, TX 78754
Phone 
(512) 936-5200
Website 
tsbpe.texas.gov
EXAMINATION 
INFORMATION
Candidates may contact 
Pearson VUE with questions 
about this handbook or about 
an upcoming examination.
Pearson VUE Texas 
State Board of Plumbing 
Examiners
 5601 Green Valley Drive 
Bloomington, MN 55437
Phone 
(888) 304-3589
Email 
pearsonvuecustomerservice@
pearson.com
Website 
www.pearsonvue.com
--- PAGE 3 ---
Table of Contents
OVERVIEW ..................................................... 1
INTRODUCTION ............................................ 1
Contact Information ..........................................1
Licensure Process ..............................................1
Exam Reviews .....................................................2
STATE LICENSING REQUIREMENTS ............. 2
Licenses ...............................................................2
Endorsements ....................................................5
RESERVATIONS ............................................. 5
Making an Exam Reservation ...........................5
Test Center Locations ........................................6
Exam Fees ...........................................................6
Change/Cancel Policy ........................................6
Absence/Lateness Policy ...................................6
Weather Delays and Cancellations ..................7
Accommodations ...............................................7
EXAM DAY ..................................................... 8
What to Bring .....................................................8
Exam Procedures ...............................................8
Available Exams and Time Allotted .................9
Score Reporting................................................10
Retaking the Exam ...........................................10
Review of Exams ..............................................10
Score Explanation ............................................10
Duplicate Score Reports .................................10
Pearson VUE Test Center Policies ..................10
PREPARING FOR THE EXAM ....................... 12
Exam Content ...................................................12
Study Materials ................................................12
GENERAL INFORMATION ........................... 17
Test Center Locations ......................................17
Pearson VUE Holiday Schedule ......................17
--- PAGE 4 ---
1
Overview
The candidate handbook is a useful tool 
in preparing for an examination.
It is highly recommended that the Texas State Board 
of Plumbing Examiners Candidate Handbook be 
reviewed, with special attention given to the exami -
nation reviews, before taking the examination. 
(Examination reviews can be found at tsbpe.texas.
gov/printableforms  under "Examination Review 
Courses."
Individuals who wish to obtain a 
plumbing license in the state of Texas 
must:
1.   Apply either through the TSBPE Online 
Licensing System or by downloading the 
applicable application from the TSBPE web -
site (see "Printable Forms" on tsbpe.texas.
gov) and sending it to the TSBPE via US Mail. 
After review and approval, Pearson VUE will 
send your "Authorization to Test" to the 
email address you provide on the applica -
tion. The Authorization to Test email con -
firms your eligibility to proceed with the 
Computer Based Testing program.  
  Refer to State Licensing Requirements  for 
additional information on eligibility require -
ments for each license type.
2.  Complete an examination request and pay 
the examination fee.
  Make an exam reservation either online at 
https://www.pearsonvue.com/us/en/tsbpe.
html.
3. Go to the test center.
  Go to the test center on the day of the examina-
tion, bringing all required materials.
4.  After successful completion of the computer-
based/written examination.
* If your exam DOES NOT include a practical 
portion.
Congratulations! You may now proceed to the 
TSBPE Online Licensing System ( vo.licensing.
hpc.texas.gov ) and pay the required initial 
license fee. Your wall certificate and pocket card 
will be delivered to you via US Mail in 10-15  
business days.
* If your exam includes a practical portion.
You will receive a second Authorization to Test 
via email in about ten days.
Introduction
Contact Information
Candidates may contact Pearson VUE with questions 
about this handbook or an examination.
Pearson VUE/Texas State  
Board of Plumbing Examiners 
5601 Green Valley Dr., Bloomington, MN 55437
Phone: (888) 304-3589
Website: www.pearsonvue.com
Email: pearsonvuecustomerservice@pearson.com
Live Chat is available to address your support inqui -
ries and is the quickest way to reach a customer ser -
vice agent. It is available from 8:00 AM through 5:00 
PM Central Time, Monday through Friday, subject to 
change during locally designated holidays.
Please visit https://www.pearsonvue.com/us/en/
tsbpe.html#contact for further information.
Candidates may contact the Texas State Board of 
Plumbing Examiners with questions about obtaining 
or maintaining a license.
Texas State Board of Plumbing Examiners 
7915 Cameron Rd., Austin, TX 78754
Phone: (512) 936-5200 
Website: https://tsbpe.texas.gov/contact
Licensure Process
There are four types of plumbing licenses: Tradesman 
Plumber- Limited, Journeyman, Master, and Plumbing 
Inspector. To obtain a license, you must meet all eli -
gibility requirements including: taking and passing 
an examination, and paying a fee. Licenses renew 
annually. When you are issued your license for the 
--- PAGE 5 ---
2 
first time, you will be assigned a random expiration 
date anywhere from 6–18 months from the date you 
passed your licensure exam. All licensees must com -
plete six hours of continuing professional education 
each year to be eligible to renew.
Exam Reviews
Examination review courses are available for 
Tradesman, Journeyman, Master, and Plumber 
Inspector exams and can be found at tsbpe.texas.
gov/printableforms.
State Licensing 
Requirements
The Texas State Board of Plumbing Examiners has 
established the requirements for qualifications for 
four types of plumber licenses and three types of 
Endorsements. The license types are: Tradesman 
Plumber-Limited, Journeyman, Master, and, 
Plumbing Inspector. The Endorsements are: Medical 
Gas Installation, Water Supply Protection Specialist, 
and the Residential Fire Protection Specialist. 
Applicants should read this candidate handbook and 
any other information provided by the Texas State 
Board of Plumbing Examiners before attempting to 
make a reservation for any licensing examination. 
Applicants must meet all eligibility and experience 
requirements and receive an Authorization to Test 
email from Pearson VUE before they make an exami-
nation reservation. Please note that the Tradesman 
and Journeyman exams require a practical por tion 
after successful completion of the written/computer-
based portion of the examination in most cases. In 
addition, the Medical Gas Installation Endorsement 
examination also requires a practical portion after 
successfully completing the written examination. 
ALL examinations require that the applicant provide 
proof of obtaining fingerprints. More information on 
obtaining your fingerprints can be found at: tsbpe.
texas.gov/fingerprint-instructions-for-plumbers
Licenses
How to Apply Online
The quickest and easiest way to apply for any exami -
nation is via the State of Texas Online Licensing 
System at https://vo.licensing.hpc.texas.gov. If you 
don’t have an existing account, you can create one 
from that page by clicking “Begin here for sign-up.” 
Note: You will need your Social Security number, date 
of birth, and the zip code you have on file with the 
TSBPE to create an account.
Once you have logged in you will be taken to a page 
called the “Quick Start Menu.” From there, click 
“Choose an application” in the Manage Your License 
Information section and the choose the exam you 
would like to take from the drop-down menu. From 
there, follow the instructions to confirm your per -
sonal information, upload any relevant documenta -
tion, and to make a payment. Once the payment is 
successful, and assuming you provided all neces -
sary information, you should receive your notice of 
Authorization to Test.
Paper applications are also available; links to the 
relevant paperwork are provided in each of the fol -
lowing license-specific sections.
Tradesman Plumber-Limited
The eligibility requirements for the Tradesman 
Plumber-Limited exam are as follows:
•  you are a current citizen or national of the 
United States or an immigrant eligible to work 
in the State of  Texas;
•  you are registered as a Plumber’s Apprentice 
in Texas; 
•  you have at least 4,000 hours of verifiable 
experience working in the plumbing trade in 
Texas or out-of state; 
•  you have completed a 24-hour training course 
approved by the TSBPE or you are enrolled 
in or have completed a training program 
approved by the United States Department of 
Labor Office of Apprenticeship; and
•  you have obtained your fingerprints for review 
and approval.
--- PAGE 6 ---
3
To apply for the Tradesman Plumber-Limited exam, 
follow the instructions in the “How to Apply Online” 
section above. You can also submit your applica -
tion via US mail using a paper application form. The 
fee to apply for the Tradesman Plumber-Limited 
Examination is $36. 
Supporting documentation required:
• Employer Certification Form
•  Supplemental Criminal History 
Information Form (if you ever have been 
convicted of a felony)
The TSBPE will receive your computer-based/writ -
ten score from Pearson VUE within 48 hours. Please 
allow additional time for holidays and non-business 
days. Upon receipt and review of your score, you will 
receive a second Authorization to Test email from 
Pearson VUE, clearing the way for you to schedule 
your practical exam in either Austin or Waco
The practical portion of your examination includes 
a hands-on portion. The TSBPE furnishes all materi -
als needed to take the examination. Short pants and 
open toed shoes are not allowed to be worn in the 
examination area. NO EXCEPTIONS. Please come 
prepared to demonstrate your practical installation 
abilities.
Journeyman
The eligibility requirements for the Journeyman exam 
are as follows:
•  you are a current citizen or national of the 
United States or an immigrant eligible to work 
in the State of Texas;
•  you are currently registered as a Plumbers 
Apprentice or currently licensed as a 
Tradesman Plumber-Limited in Texas or cur -
rently licensed as Journeyman Plumber or 
Master Plumber in another state;
•  you have at least 8,000 hours of experience 
working in the plumbing trade; 
•  you have completed a 48-hour training course* 
approved by the TSBPE or you are enrolled 
and in or have completed a training program 
approved by the United States Department of 
Labor Office of Apprenticeship; and
•  your fingerprints have been reviewed and 
approved by the TSBPE.
Note: Current Louisiana and Arkansas licensees may 
obtain a license through reciprocity without exami -
nation. See the TSBPE website for details. 
* If you hold a Journeyman or Master Plumber License 
issued to you by another state, you do not have to com -
plete the 48-hour training program.
To apply for the Journeyman exam, follow the instruc-
tions in the “How to Apply Online” section on page 
1. You can also submit your application via US mail 
using "Journeyman Plumber Examination Application" 
found on the TSBPE homepage under "printable 
Forms." The fee to apply for the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination is $40. 
Supporting documentation required:
• Employer Certification Form
•  Supplemental Criminal History 
Information Form (if you have ever been 
convicted of a felony)
Once you have successfully passed both the written 
and practical portions of the exam you must submit 
a $40 initial license fee to obtain your certificate of 
licensure and pocket card. This fee will appear in 
your TSBPE online account as an initial fee. If you  are 
not able to pay the initial fee online, you may send a 
copy of your pass/congratulations letter along with a 
check or money order to TSBPE, 7915 Cameron Road, 
Austin, Texas 78754. 
Monies received without a copy of the letter will NOT 
be processed and will be returned to the sender. 
NOTE: If you are a Tradesman moving up to a 
Journeyman you are not required to retake the prac -
tical portion of the exam and may proceed to pay 
your initial license fee as described above. 
Master 
The eligibility requirements for the Master exam are 
as follows:
•  you are a current citizen or national of the 
United States or an immigrant eligible to work 
in the State of Texas;
• you are currently licensed as:
--- PAGE 7 ---
4 
–  a Journeyman Plumber in Texas or 
another state and have held your license 
for at least four years; 
–  a Journeyman Plumber in Texas or 
another state, have held your license for 
at least one year, and have successfully 
completed a training program approved 
by the United States Department of 
Labor Office of Apprenticeship;
–  a Master Plumber in another state and 
previously held a Journeyman Plumber 
License for at least four years;
–  a Master Plumber in another state, hold-
ing a Journeyman Plumber License for at 
least one year, and has successfully com-
pleted a training program approved by 
the United States Department of Labor 
Office of Apprenticeship.
–  you have obtained your fingerprints for 
review and approval.
To apply for the Master exam, follow the instructions 
in the “How to Apply Online” section on page 1. You 
can also submit your application via US mail using 
this application form. The fee to apply for the Master 
Plumber Examination is $175.
Supporting documentation required:
•  Supplemental Criminal History 
Information Form (if you have ever been 
convicted of a felony)
Once you have successfully passed the examination 
you must submit a $75 initial license fee to obtain 
your certificate of licensure and pocket card. This fee 
will appear in your TSBPE online account as an initial 
fee. If you simply are not able to pay the initial fee 
online you may send a copy of your pass/congratu -
lations letter along with a check or money order to 
TSBPE, 7915 Cameron Road, Austin, Texas 78754. 
Note that monies received without a copy of the let -
ter will NOT be processed and will be returned to the 
sender. 
Plumbing Inspector (coming soon)
The eligibility requirements for the Plumbing 
Inspector exam are as follows:
•  you are a current citizen or national of the 
United States or an immigrant eligible to work 
in the State of Texas;
•  you have completed 500 hours of training and 
experience in the plumbing industry; or
• you are currently licensed as:
– a Master Plumber in Texas;
– a Journeyman Plumber in Texas;
– a Professional Engineer in Texas;
– an Architect in Texas; or
–  a Plumbing Inspector in another state 
that has licensing requirements substan-
tially equivalent to the licensing require -
ments of the TSBPE.
•  your fingerprints have been submitted for 
review and approval.
To apply for the Inspector exam, follow the 
instructions in the “How to Apply Online” section 
above. You can also submit your application via 
US mail using this application form. The fee to 
apply for the Plumbing Inspector Examination is 
$55.
Supporting documentation required:
•  Plumbing Inspector Employer Certification 
Form
•  Supplemental Criminal History 
Information Form (if you have ever been 
convicted of a felony)
Once you have successfully passed the examination 
you must submit a $27.50 initial license fee to obtain 
your certificate of licensure and pocket card. This fee 
will appear in your TSBPE online account as an initial 
fee. If you are not able to pay the initial fee online, 
you may send a copy of your pass/congratulations 
letter along with a check or money order to TSBPE, 
7915 Cameron Road, Austin, Texas 78754. 
Note that monies received without a copy of the let -
ter will NOT be processed and will be returned to the 
sender.  
--- PAGE 8 ---
5
Endorsements
ALL endorsement examinations require that the 
applicant obtain their fingerprints for review by the 
TSBPE if not previously done on another examina -
tion. Fingerprinting is typically a one-time process. 
Medical Gas Piping Installation
The eligibility requirements for the Medical Gas 
Piping Installation exam are as follows:
•  you are currently licensed as a Master Plumber, 
Journeyman Plumber, or Plumbing Inspector 
in Texas; and
•  you have completed a 24-hour training course 
approved by the TSBPE.
Multipurpose Residential Fire Protection 
Specialist (coming soon)
The eligibility requirements for the Multipurpose 
Residential Fire Protection Specialist exam are as 
follows:
•  you are currently licensed as a Master Plumber, 
Journeyman Plumber, or Plumbing Inspector 
in Texas; and
•  you have completed a 24-hour training course 
approved by the TSBPE or you hold a current 
RME-General or RME-Dwelling License issued 
by the State Fire Marshal.
Water Supply Protection Specialist
The eligibility requirements for the Water Supply 
Protection Specialist exam are as follows:
•  you are currently licensed as a Master Plumber, 
Journeyman Plumber, or Plumbing Inspector 
in Texas; and
•  you have completed a 24-hour training course 
approved by the TSBPE.
Reservations
Making an Exam Reservation
Walk-in examinations are not available. Online res -
ervations are the most efficient way for candidates 
to schedule their examination. Candidates must go 
to https://www.pearsonvue.com/us/en/tsbpe.html to 
make an online reservation for an examination. First-
time users are required to create an account. The 
candidate will provide their First Name, Last Name, 
and TSBPE Entity ID number (this number is included 
on their Authorization to Test letter). 
You must obtain your Authorization to Test letter 
prior to registering to take an examination.  This let -
ter will only be provided once Pearson VUE receives 
approval from the TSBPE. Step-by-step instructions 
will lead the candidate through the rest of the exami-
nation reservation process.
Candidates must make an online or phone reserva -
tion at least 24 hours before the desired examination 
date. 
Before making a reservation, candidates should have 
the following:
•  Legal name as indicated on your government 
issued photo ID
•  Physical mailing address, email address, and 
daytime telephone number
•  Entity ID # as provided on the Authorization-
To-Test letter received from Pearson VUE
• The name of the examination(s)
•  The preferred examination date and test cen -
ter location (a list appears on the back cover of 
this handbook)
As a reminder:
•  Both types of exams, computer-based/writ -
ten and practical, are scheduled through 
Pearson VUE.
•  All computer-based/written exams are admin-
istered at Pearson VUE testing centers.
•  All practical examinations are administered at 
the TSBPE’s Austin and Waco testing centers.
--- PAGE 9 ---
6 
Test Center Locations
A list of test centers appears on the back cover of this 
handbook. In addition, candidates may review the test 
center locations by going to https://wsr.pearsonvue.
com/testtaker/find/testcenter/tsbpe If the candidate 
has questions regarding the confirmation of specific 
locations and/or examination schedules, please con -
tact Pearson VUE.
Texas State Board of Plumbing Examiners examina -
tions are now available at select Pearson VUE test 
centers on military installations across the globe. 
Service members, dependents, and contractors with 
authorized base access who want to gain Texas State 
Board of Plumbing Examiners licensure from their 
duty station or assignment in another state and for -
eign deployment will have the option to take their 
exams without having to leave their base. In addition 
to Pearson VUE’s standard ID policy, candidates must 
have valid government ID and authorization to gain 
access to military testing sites. Civilians without valid 
government ID will be turned away by the test center 
and/or military entrance gate security. 
To locate a Pearson VUE authorized testing center, 
visit https://www.pearsonvue.com/us/en/tsbpe.html 
and select the “Find an on-base test center” link on 
the lower right-hand side of the page.
Exam Fees
The examination fee must be paid at the time of 
reservation by credit card, debit card, or voucher. 
Payment will not be accepted at the test center, nor 
will a single payment that covers more than one can-
didate be accepted. See Available Exams and Time 
Allotted for exam fees.
Candidates are responsible for knowing all regula -
tions regarding fees and examination scheduling as 
presented here. Examination fees are non-refund -
able and non-transferable, except as detailed in 
Change/Cancel Policy.
Vouchers
Vouchers offer another convenient way to pay for 
tests. Vouchers can be purchased online at https://
www.pearsonvue.com/us/en/test-centers/voucher-
store.html by credit card either as single vouchers or 
in volume. To redeem a voucher as payment when 
scheduling a test, simply indicate voucher as the pay-
ment method and provide the voucher number. All 
vouchers are pre-paid. Vouchers are non-refundable 
and non-returnable.
Vouchers expire 12 months from the date they are 
issued. Voucher expiration dates cannot be extend -
ed. The exam must be taken by the expiration date 
printed on the voucher.
Change/Cancel Policy
Candidates should call Pearson VUE at (888) 304-3589 
at least 48 hours before the examination to change 
or cancel a reservation. Candidates who change or 
cancel a reservation with proper notice may either 
transfer their fees to a new reservation or request 
a refund. Candidates who change or cancel their 
reservations without proper notice will forfeit 
the examination fee. Refunds for credit/debit cards 
are immediate, while refunds for vouchers will be 
processed in two to three weeks.
Candidates are individually liable for the full amount 
of the examination fee once a reservation has been 
made, whether individually or by a third party.
Absence/Lateness Policy
Candidates who are late to or absent from an 
examination may be excused for the following rea -
sons:
•  Illness of the candidate or of the candidate’s 
immediate family member
• Death in the immediate family
• Disabling traffic accident
• Court appearance or jury duty
• Military duty
• Weather emergency
A case number will be assigned and instructions 
provided for emailing supporting documentation. 
Candidates absent from or late to an exam who 
have not changed or canceled the reservation 
according to the Change/Cancel policy will not 
be admitted to the exam and will forfeit the 
exam fee.
--- PAGE 10 ---
7
Weather Delays and 
Cancellations
If severe weather or a natural disaster makes the 
Pearson VUE test center inaccessible or unsafe, 
the examination may be delayed or canceled. 
Pearson VUE will notify and reschedule candidates in 
the case of severe weather.
Accommodations
Pearson VUE complies with the provisions of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act as amended. The 
purpose of accommodations is to provide candi -
dates with full access to the test. Accommodations 
are not a guarantee of improved performance or 
test completion. Pearson VUE provides reasonable 
and appropriate accommodations to individuals with 
documented disabilities who demonstrate a need for 
accommodations.
Test accommodations may include things such as:
• A separate testing room
• Extra testing time
Test accommodations are individualized and consid -
ered on a case-by-case basis. All candidates who are 
requesting accommodations because of a disability 
must provide appropriate documentation of their 
condition and how it is expected to affect their ability 
to take the test under standard conditions. This may 
include:
•  Supporting documentation from the profes -
sional who diagnosed the condition, including 
the credentials that qualify the professional to 
make this diagnosis
•  A description of past accommodations the 
candidate has received
The steps to follow when requesting test accom -
modations vary, depending on your test program 
sponsor. To begin, go to https://www.pearsonvue.
com/us/en/test-takers/accommodations.html , and 
then select your test program sponsor from the 
alphabetized list. Candidates who have additional 
questions concerning test accommodations may 
contact the ADA Coordinator at accommodation -
spearsonvue@pearson.com .
Accommodations for practical exams must be 
submitted directly to TSBPE. Applicants must sub-
mit a completed Accommodation form available 
by calling (512) 936-5232. 
--- PAGE 11 ---
8 
Exam Day
What to Bring
Required Materials
Candidates who do not present the required 
items will be denied admission to the examina -
tion, will be considered absent, and will forfeit 
the examination fee.
Acceptable Forms of Candidate 
Identification
Candidates must present one form of current sig -
nature identification. The name on the identifica -
tion must exactly match the name on the registra -
tion. The primary identification must be government 
issued and photo-bearing with a signature, and the 
secondary identification must contain a valid signa -
ture. Identification must be in English.
The TSBPE recommends you also bring: water, and 
snacks/lunch items if you’re taking the Master or 
Inspector exam due to the length of the test.
Primary ID (with photograph and signature, not 
expired)
• Government-issued Driver’s license
• U.S. Department of State Driver’s license
•  U.S. Learner’s permit (plastic card only with 
photo and signature)
• National/State/Country Identification Card
• Passport
• Passport card
• Military ID
• Military ID for spouses and dependents
•  Alien Registration Card (Green Card, 
Permanent Resident Visa)
If the ID presented has an embedded signature that 
is not visible (microchip), or is difficult or impossible 
to read, the candidate must present another form of 
identification from the Primary ID list that contains a 
visible signature.
Pearson VUE does not recognize grace periods. For 
example, if a candidate’s driver’s license expired yes -
terday and the state allows a 30-day grace period for 
renewing the ID, the ID is considered to be expired.
Exam Procedures
Candidates should report to the test center thirty (30) 
minutes before the examination and check in with 
the test center administrator. The candidate’s iden -
tification and other documentation will be reviewed 
and they will be photographed for the score report.
Candidates are required to review and sign a 
Candidate Rules Agreement form. If the Candidate 
Rules Agreement is not followed and/or cheating or 
tampering with the examination is suspected, the 
incident will be reported as such and the appropriate 
action will be taken. The examination fee will not be 
refunded, the exam may be determined invalid, and/
or the state may not issue the license.
Candidates must take a tutorial on the computer on 
which the examination will be administered. The time 
spent on this tutorial will not reduce the examination 
time. The examination administrators will answer 
questions regarding use of the computer, but candi -
dates should be aware that the administrators are not 
familiar with the content of the examinations or with 
the state’s licensing requirements.
Candidates may begin the examination once they are 
familiar with the computer. The examination begins 
the moment a candidate looks at the first examination 
question. The examination will end automatically after 
the examination time has expired, and candidates will 
leave the test center with their official scores in hand.
For security purposes, Pearson VUE will capture each 
candidate’s digital signature and photograph upon 
check-in.
--- PAGE 12 ---
9
Available Exams and 
Time Allotted
EXAM PORTION # ITEMS
TIME  
(in  
minutes)
EXAM  
FEE
INITIAL 
LICENSE 
FEE
Tradesman Plumber Limited License 
Written 85 120 $68.50 
$35.00 
Practical 6 240 $36.00
Journeyman Plumber License
Written 100 120 $68.50
$40.00 
Practical 6 240 $40.00
Master Plumber License Written only 308
360 (plus 
30 minute 
break)
$128.50 $75.00
Journeyman Medical Gas Piping 
Installation Endorsement
Written 150 180 $68.50 
$14.00 
Practical 2 120 $27.00 
Master Medical Gas Piping 
Installation Endorsement
Written 150 180  $68.50 
 $55.00
Practical 2 120 $80.00 
Inspector Medical Gas Piping 
Installation Endorsement Written only 150 180 $68.50 $27.50
Journeyman Multipurpose 
Residential Fire Protection Sprinkler 
Specialist Endorsement (coming 
soon)
Written only 130 180 $68.50 $55.00
Master Multipurpose Residential 
Fire Protection Sprinkler Specialist 
Endorsement (coming soon)
Written only 130 180 $68.50 $14.00
Inspector Multipurpose Residential 
Fire Protection Sprinkler Specialist 
Endorsement (coming soon)
Written only 130 180 $68.50 $27.50
Journeyman Water Supply 
Protection Specialist Endorsement Written only 100 120 $68.50 $14.00
Master Water Supply Protection 
Specialist Endorsement Written only 100 120 $68.50 $55.00
Inspector Water Supply Protection 
Specialist Endorsement Written only 100 120 $68.50 $27.50
--- PAGE 13 ---
10 
Score Reporting
When candidates complete the examination, they 
will receive a score report marked “pass” or “fail.” If 
there is a practical component of the exam, the exam 
is not considered to have an overall pass until both 
the written and practical portions have been passed. 
Retaking the Exam
Candidates who fail the examination will receive 
a score report that includes a numeric score and 
diagnostic information relating to the failed portion 
of the examination, as well as information about re-
examination.
Reservations for re-examination cannot be made 
at the test center, and candidates must wait 24 
hours before scheduling.  The fee must be paid at 
the time of reservation by credit card, debit card, 
or voucher. Payment will not be accepted at the 
test center, nor will a single payment that covers 
more than one candidate be accepted.
Your initial examination authorization is good for up 
to five attempts on the written portion of the exami -
nation. Please return to your Pearson VUE account 
at: https://www.pearsonvue.com/us/en/tsbpe.html  
to schedule your next attempt. Please note that you 
must wait at least 30 days after your first failure, 60 
days on a second failure, and 90 days on each failure 
thereafter. 
Do not reapply for additional authorization through 
TSBPE until you have exhausted your five attempts 
with the exam provider. Your attempts must be com-
pleted within one year from the initial TSBPE applica-
tion authorization. You must successfully complete 
the written portion of your examination before you 
will be scheduled for the practical portion of your 
examination. 
Review of Exams
For security reasons, examination questions are not 
available to candidates for review.
Score Explanation
Percent Score
You must achieve a score of 70% to pass the exam. 
The diagnostic information on the score report pro -
vides how you performed in each content area. The 
content area information provided is meant only as 
a general guide for study purposes.
Please note that you should review all content 
areas before retaking the exam.
Duplicate Score Reports
For written exams taken May 17, 2022 or later, log 
into your Pearson VUE account to obtain your score 
report.
For score reports related to exams taken prior to May 
17, 2022, contact TSBPE at exams@tsbpe.texas.gov. 
Score reports will only be sent to the email address 
of record.
Pearson VUE Test 
Center Policies
The following policies are observed at each test cen -
ter. Candidates who violate any of these policies 
will not be permitted to finish the examination 
and will be dismissed from the test center, for -
feiting the examination fee.
•  No personal items are allowed in the test -
ing room. Personal items include but are not 
limited to cellular phones, hand-held comput -
ers or other electronic devices, pagers, watch -
es, wallets, purses, firearms or other weapons, 
hats, bags, coats, books, and/or notes, pens or 
pencils.
•  You will be asked to empty your pockets for 
the purpose of allowing the Test administrator 
to verify that nothing is in them. If you have 
hair that covers your ears, you may be asked 
to show them for the purpose of allowing the 
TA to verify that no electronic devices are pres-
ent. The TA may also ask you to roll up your 
sleeves to verify that you have no writings on 
your arms. Before you enter the testing room, 
you will be asked to pat yourself down (for 
--- PAGE 14 ---
11
example: arms, legs, waistline) to show there is 
nothing hidden on your body.
•  Candidates must store all personal items in a 
secure area as indicated by the administrator, 
or return items to their vehicles. All electronic 
devices must be turned off before storing them 
in a locker. The test center is not responsible 
for lost, stolen, or misplaced personal items.
•  Studying is not allowed in the test center. 
Visitors, children, family, or friends are not  
allowed in the test center.
•  Dictionaries, books, papers (including scratch 
paper), and reference materials are not permit-
ted in the examination room and candidates 
are strongly urged not to bring such materials 
to the test center. When the candidate enters 
and is seated in the testing room, the test 
administrator will provide the candidate with 
materials to make notes and any other items 
specified by the exam sponsor. The candidate 
may not write on these items before the 
exam begins or remove these items from 
the testing room.
•  Eating, drinking, chewing gum, smoking, and/
or making noise that creates a disturbance 
for other candidates is prohibited during the 
exam.
•  Break policies are established by the exam 
sponsor. Most sponsors allow unscheduled 
breaks. To request an unscheduled break, the 
candidate must raise his or her hand to get 
the administrator’s attention. The exam clock 
will not stop while the candidate is taking 
a break on any exam. Exception will be the 
Master and Inspector that have specific 
break times but does not prohibit the can -
didate from taking unscheduled breaks but 
candidate should be aware of their time. 
•  Candidates must leave the testing room for all 
breaks. However, candidates are not permit-
ted to leave the floor or building for any 
reason during this time, unless specified by 
the administrator and the exam sponsor. If 
a candidate is discovered to have left the floor 
or building, he or she will not be permitted to 
proceed with the examination and may forfeit 
the exam fees.  
•  While taking a break, candidates are permitted 
to access personal items that are being stored 
during the exam only if necessary—for exam -
ple, personal medication that must be taken at 
a specific time. However, a candidate must 
receive permission from the administrator 
prior to accessing personal items that have 
been stored. Candidates are not allowed 
access to other items, including but not lim -
ited to cellular phones, exam notes, and study 
guides, unless the exam sponsor specifically 
permits this.
•  Any candidate discovered causing a distur -
bance of any kind or engaging in any kind of 
misconduct—giving or receiving help; using 
notes, books, or other aids; taking part in an 
act of impersonation; or removing examina -
tion materials or notes from the examination 
room—will be summarily dismissed from the 
examination and will be reported to the state 
licensing agency. Decisions regarding disci -
plinary measures are the responsibility of the 
state licensing agency.
Breaks 
All candidates are permitted one 30-minute pause-
the-clock and necessary unscheduled breaks. 
Pause-the-Clock (Master Plumber and Plumbing 
Inspector exams)
A 30-minute pause-the-clock is built into the exam 
and can be used at the candidate's own discre -
tion. The 30-minute pause-the-clock is optional for 
the candidate. If the candidate chooses to take the 
pause-the-clock, he/she must raise his/her hand to 
get the administrator’s attention before taking the 
break. 
During the pause-the-clock break, candidates are 
only allowed to remove items from his or her locker 
with prior permission from the test administrator. 
Note: Candidates are not allowed to eat in the test 
center.  
During the pause-the-clock, candidates are not 
allowed to leave the floor or building. If a candidate 
decides to take the 30-minute break, he/she will be 
responsible for monitoring his/her allotted time. The 
exam will automatically begin at the portion where 
the candidate left. The candidate’s allotted time for 
--- PAGE 15 ---
12 
the exam will begin to count down after the 30-min -
ute break and will continue to do so even if the can -
didate has not returned on time to resume testing 
after the break.
Unscheduled Breaks 
Unscheduled breaks are also available for the can -
didate. Candidates must raise their hand to get the 
administrator’s attention before taking a break. 
During unscheduled breaks, candidates are not 
allowed to remove items from their locker, unless 
they require personal items such as medication that 
must be taken at a specific time. If this is the case, 
the candidate must receive prior permission from 
the test administrator before taking items from the 
locker. During unscheduled breaks, candidates are 
not allowed access to other items, including but not 
limited to cellular phones, exam notes, and study 
guides.
During unscheduled breaks, candidates are not 
allowed to leave the floor or building for any reason. 
If the candidate is discovered to have left the floor 
or building, he/she will not be permitted to proceed 
with the examination and may forfeit the exam fees.
Preparing for 
the Exam
Exam Content
The Exam Content is developed and reviewed at each 
code change cycle by licensed staff members with 
knowledge of the plumbing industry.  
Study Materials
Neither the Texas State Board of Plumbing Examiners 
(TSBPE) nor Pearson VUE specifically endorses any 
particular study materials for the plumbing examina-
tions; however, there are some suggested materials 
listed below for each type of plumbing examination. 
When obtaining study materials, please obtain the 
latest edition of the listed textbooks as they should 
cover the topics referenced within the content out -
lines.
Master Plumber Examination Review Course
https://tsbpe.texas.gov/wp-content/uploads/docu -
ments/TSBPE_Master_ReviewCourse.pdf
Tradesman Plumber-Limited Licensee 
Examination Review Course
https://tsbpe.texas.gov/wp-content/uploads/docu -
ments/TSBPE_Tradesman_ReviewCourse.pdf
Candidates should study the Plumbing License Law, 
rules of the Texas State Board of Plumbing Examiners 
and either the: 
•   2018 International Plumbing Code and 2018 
International Fuel Gas Code, English and 
Spanish editions available by calling 800-786-
4452 or by visiting www.iccsafe.org 
OR the 
•   2018 Uniform Plumbing Code, available by 
calling 800-854-2766 or website address is 
http://iapmostore.org 
--- PAGE 16 ---
13
How to Study the Plumbing License Law 
and Board Rules
The Plumbing License Law and Board Rules contain 
the regulations for persons who work in the plumb -
ing industry to follow. The Plumber’s Apprentice 
should be familiar with all of these regulations. 
However, for the purposes of preparing for the 
Journeyman Plumber examination, the Plumber’s 
Apprentice should study the Plumbing License Law, 
Sections 1301.351, 1301.356, 1301.403, 1301.404, 
1301.452, 1301.502, 1301.508, 1301.701, 1301.702 
and the Board Rules, Sections 361.1, 365.1, 367.2, 
367.4, 367.5 and 367.7. 
The Plumbing License Law and Board Rules are avail-
able on the Texas State Board of Plumbing Examiners 
website at tsbpe.texas.gov, or by calling the Board’s 
office at 512-936-5200. 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
A person may not install pipe used solely to transport 
gasses for medical purposes unless the person is: 
A.  a licensed Master or Journeyman Plumber 
under the Plumbing License Law. 
B.  licensed as a Master or Journeyman Plumber 
and holds a Medical Gas Piping Installation 
Endorsement under the Plumbing License 
Law. 
C.  at least an apprentice registered with the 
Board. 
D.  on a job where a licensed Master Plumber is 
working nearby 
How to Study the Plumbing Codes and 
Sample Test Questions 
The examination contains questions pertaining to 
plumbing of one- and two-family dwellings, as well as 
commercial installations. 
In some instances, a plumbing code may refer to a 
manufacturer’s recommendations on a particular 
subject. For the purposes of the examination, the 
applicant needs to be familiar with the manufac -
turer recommendations for the installation of solvent 
cemented P.V.C. joints, steel pipe threaded/screwed 
joints, soldered and brazed copper joints and com -
pression band type cast iron joints. These manu -
facturer recommendations are found in the form 
of the manufacturer instructions for the assembly 
of the particular product. For example, the label on 
most cans of P.V.C. primer and solvent cement have 
instructions for the proper preparation of the pipe 
and application of the primer and solvent cement. 
Manufacturer recommendations are also found on 
the labels of most pipe joint compounds for thread -
ed/screwed joints and soldering fluxes for copper 
soldered joints. Manufacturer recommendations for 
compression band type cast iron joints are supplied 
with the bands or from the supplier or manufacturer. 
The plumbing codes are separated into chapters 
according to subjects. Some subjects are covered in 
more than one chapter, depending on which code is 
chosen to study. For example, installation of meth -
ods for plumbing materials are generally covered in 
the General Regulations chapter, but more specific 
methods for installing solvent cemented P.V.C. water 
pipe, may be found in the chapter on Water Supply 
and Distribution. 
When preparing for the examination, the applicant 
should pay particular attention to the following chap-
ters and subject matter listed under each chapter: 
Chapter on Definitions 
Studying a plumbing code should begin with learn -
ing and understanding the proper plumbing terms 
and their meanings found in the chapter on defini -
tions. When the proper terms and their meanings 
are known and understood, the applicant will find 
the other chapters in the plumbing code much easier 
to understand. The plumbing codes use only correct 
plumbing terms and do not contain any slang terms. 
--- PAGE 17 ---
14 
Since the examination is based on the plumbing 
codes, only correct terms are used in the examina -
tion. 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
That part of the drainage system which extends 
from the end of the building drain and conveys its 
discharge to a public sewer, private sewer, individual 
sewage - disposal system or other point of disposal 
is a: 
A. waste pipe 
B. soil stack 
C. building sewer 
D. branch 
Chapter on General Regulations or General 
Requirements 
The chapter on general regulations or general 
requirements, generally addresses the requirements 
for the installation of plumbing. Some of the subjects 
in this chapter may be more specifically addressed in 
the other chapters of the code. Some of the subjects 
covered in this chapter include: 
•   types of materials and fixtures which may 
and may not be used; 
•   installation methods which may and may not 
be used; 
•   protection of piping from corrosion, stress, 
freezing and physical damage; 
•   proper bedding, support and protection of 
pipe installed in trenches and tunnels; 
•   limitations on cutting, notching and boring of 
the building structure; 
•   required types and methods of testing and 
inspection of the plumbing system. 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
All piping passing under or, through walls shall be: 
A. protected from breakage 
B. bent 90° degrees 
C. welded joints 
D. accessible 
Chapter on Plumbing Fixtures 
The chapter in the codes on plumbing fixtures 
addresses the approved types and sizes of fixtures, 
faucets and fixture fittings and their installation. 
Some of the subjects covered in this chapter are: 
•   water closets, bidets, lavatories, bathtubs, 
showers, sinks, automatic clothes washers, 
dish washers, food grinders; 
•   fixture fittings and accessories, such as 
p-traps, tailpieces, slip joint connections, 
flush valves and overflows in water closet 
tanks. 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
Water closets or bidets shall not be set closer than 
_____ from its center to any sidewall or partition. 
A. 10 inches 
B. 12 inches 
C. 15 inches 
D. 18 inches 
Chapter on Water Heaters 
The chapter on water heaters addresses the instal -
lation of water heaters, including the required con -
nections, valves and safety devices. The chapter in 
the codes on fuel gas, also addresses many require -
ments for water heater installation and venting. 
Some of the subjects addressed in the chapter on 
Water Heaters are: 
•  approved locations of water heaters 
•  supply valves 
•   pressure and temperature relief valves and 
drains 
•  drain pans 
--- PAGE 18 ---
15
During the examination, the applicant will view sev -
eral water heater installations. Each water heater 
installation will be numbered. Each water heater 
will have the manufacturer’s warning and statistical 
labels affixed to the water heater. Each water heater 
installation will contain some code violations, which 
must be identified by the applicant. 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
The water supply piping to water heater #2: 
A.  must have a shutoff valve on both sides 
where the flex connectors join the pipe. 
B.  must have a shutoff valve on the cold water 
supply. 
C.  must have a shutoff valve on the hot water 
side only. 
D. would be code approved as installed. 
Chapter on Water Supply and Distribution 
The chapter on water supply and distribution 
addresses materials and installation of hot and cold 
water supply and distribution systems. Some of the 
subjects covered in this chapter are: 
•   cross-connection contamination prevention, 
including vacuum breakers and air gaps; 
•  approved materials for water supply piping 
•   required methods for installation of water 
piping, including threaded, solvent cement 
and solder joints 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
Type “M” copper tubing wall thickness is: 
A. heavier than type “L” 
B. heavier than type “K” 
C. lighter than type “L” 
D. lighter than type “DWV” 
Chapter on Sanitary Drainage 
The chapter on sanitary drainage addresses the 
materials and installation of sanitary drainage piping 
systems. Some of the subjects covered in this chap -
ter are: 
•   approved and prohibited materials for sani -
tary drain piping; 
•   required methods for installation of drainage 
piping, including solvent cement joints; 
•   required distance between building drain 
and water service 
•   required locations of cleanouts 
•  testing of sanitary drainage piping 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
Which one of these fixtures has the highest fixture 
unit rating? 
A. bathtub 
B. water closet 
C. lavatory 
D. kitchen sink 
Chapter on Vents 
The chapter on vents addresses the materials and 
installation of vent systems, which allow the sanitary 
drainage system to operate properly. Some of the 
subjects covered in this chapter are: 
•   the purpose of properly installed vent sys -
tems 
•   the different vent types and components 
which create a complete vent system 
•  vent terminals 
•  grading of vents 
•   connection of vent piping to sanitary drain -
age piping 
•   wet venting on the same floor versus wet 
venting one floor above another A Sample 
--- PAGE 19 ---
16 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
The connection between a vent pipe and a vent stack 
or stack vent shall be at least __ inches above the 
flood-level rim of the highest fixture served by the 
vent: 
A. 4 
B. 8 
C. 7 
D. 6 
Chapter on Traps 
The chapter on traps addresses the materials and 
installation of traps in the sanitary drainage system. 
Some of the subjects covered in this chapter are: 
•  design of different types of traps 
•  fixture traps 
•  protection of trap seals 
•  prohibited traps 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
Which one of the following characteristics is not a 
requirement of a properly installed trap? 
A. it is able to pass water freely 
B. it has mechanical or moving parts 
C. it is self-cleaning 
D.  it has a seal not less than 2 inches and not 
more than 4 inches 
Chapter on Fuel Gas or Fuel Piping 
The chapter on fuel gas or fuel piping addresses the 
pipes, valves, fittings and installation of those materi-
als used for supplying fuel gas to water heaters and 
appliances. The subjects covered in this chapter that 
the Plumber’s Apprentice should be knowledgeable 
of are: 
•  the different types of fuel gasses 
•   approved and prohibited materials for fuel 
gas piping 
•  testing of fuel gas systems 
The applicant should also know, that in order to 
install liquefied petroleum (L.P.) gas, a separate 
license issued by the Texas Railroad Commission 
must first be obtained by anyone who installs L.P. 
gas piping. 
A Sample Question from the Journeyman Plumber 
Examination: 
When supplying fuel gas to more than one building 
on any one premises, the system shall be equipped 
with: 
A. one globe valve at the meter. 
B. one shutoff valve outside each building. 
C. one pressure relief valve at each building. 
D.  one fuel gas shutoff valve inside each build -
ing. 
--- PAGE 20 ---
General Information
Candidates may test at any of our US test centers.
Test Center Locations
LOCATION ADDRESS SCHEDULE
Abilene area 3444 N 1st St, Ste. 102, Abilene TX 79603 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Amarillo area 1616 S Kentucky, Ste. C305, Amarillo, TX 79102 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Austin area 
(3 sites)
5100 W US 290 Hwy Service Road Ste. 320 Building 2, Austin, TX 78735 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
505 East Huntland Drive, 3rd Floor, Ste. 330 Centennial Towers Austin, TX 78752 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
12345 North Lamar Boulevard, Ste. 270, Austin, TX 78753 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Bellaire 6800 West Loop S, Prosperity Bank Bldg, Ste. 405, Bellaire, TX 77401 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Bryan 3121 University Drive E, Ste. 225, Bryan, TX 77802 2-3 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Corpus Christi 
area 5350 South Staples St, Ste. 327, Corpus Christi TX 78411 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Dallas area
12801 North Central Expressway, Ste. 820, Dallas, TX 75243 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
5801 Marvin D Love Freeway, Ste. 200, Dallas, TX 75237 2-3 days per week, average 8 hours per day
2201 East Lamar Boulevard, Ste. 125, Arbors at Brookhollow, Arlington, TX 76006 2-3 days per week, average 8 hours per day
4100 Midway Road Ste. 1000, International Business Park Carrollton, TX 75007 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
El Paso area 1155 Westmoreland Dr, Ste. 135, El Paso, TX 79925 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Harlingen area 222 East Van Buren, Ste. 610, Bank of America Bldg.Harlingen, TX 78550 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Houston area 
(5 sites)
14425 Torrey Chase Blvd., Ste. 240, Houston, TX 77014 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
8876 Gulf Freeway, 8876 Gulf Freeway Bldg., Ste. 220 Houston, TX 77017 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
10740 North Gessner Road Ste. 450, Houston, TX 77064 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
1333 West Loop South, Ste. 1475, Houston, TX 77027 2-3 days per week, average 8 hours per day
2424 Wilcrest, Ste. 104, Houston, TX 77042 5-6 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Hurst 500 Grapevine Hwy. Ste. 401, Hurst, TX 76054-2707 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Lubbock area 2574 74th Street, Ste. 201, Lubbock, TX 79423 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
McAllen 1100 East Jasmine Ave, Ste. 106, McAllen, TX 78501 2-3 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Midland area 3300 North A Street, Bldg. 4, Ste. 228, Midland, TX 79705-5457 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
San Antonio 
area (3 sites)
6100 Bandera Road, Stonewater Tower West, Ste. 407 San Antonio, TX 78238 3-4 days per week, average 8 hours per day
10000 San Pedro Ave, Ste. 175, San Antonio, TX 78216 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
3619 Paesanos Parkway, Ste. 301, Shavano Center III, Shavano Park, TX 78231 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Sugar Land 2245 Texas Drive, Ste. 190, Sugar Land Towne Center Sugar Land, Texas 77478 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Tyler area 110 N College Ave, Ste. 1001, Tyler, TX 75702 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day
Waco area 1105 Wooded Acres Dr, Wells Fargo Bank Bldg., Ste. 560 Waco, TX 76710 1-2 days per week, average 8 hours per day 
Locations and schedules are subject to change.  
For more test centers in Texas, please visit https://home.pearsonvue.com/tsbpe.
Pearson VUE Holiday Schedule
Testing may be unavailable on U.S. federal holidays and, in some cases, holiday weekends. 